This is an awareness
of breath meditation. Regular practice of this
meditation cultivates awareness, concentration,
and calmness. It is common to have
the mind wander off or to feel sleepiness
in this meditation. Try to let go
of expectations of how you're
supposed to feel. This practice
is an invitation to relate with
what arises with acceptance
and curiosity. Finding a sitting
posture that's both steady and
comfortable. either on a chair or on a cushion on the floor if sitting in a chair both feet are
on the floor what does it feel
like to be sitting feeling into the
parts of the body that are supported
by the floor cushion or chair the lower body is
grounded and the spine and back rise up
yet not rigid like a majestic mountain
sitting with dignity chest and heart
open shoulders softly resting
on your sides the eyes can be
closed or lowered and softly gazing face
and mouth relax and noticing where
your attention is presently, acknowledging
that, and then gently and firmly
turning your attention to the
feeling of breathing. Are you inhaling
or exhaling? Seeing if you can
****** the breath as it moves in and
out of the body, feeling the body
expand and contract, not needing to
control the breath in any way, simply
being with it. Seeing if your mind
has wandered off to thoughts of the
past or future. This is
completely normal. Acknowledge where
your mind has wandered off to and gently
and firmly bring your attention
back to the breath, to the inhale and exhale. Perhaps being curious, where do you feel your
breath most vividly? Is it when air enters
the nostrils, the chest or abdomen as
it rises and falls? Finding that
spot and allowing your attention to
rest right here. Focus of attention
will move from the breath to thoughts of
the past or future, or perhaps sensations
in the body. Again, this is
completely normal. When you notice this,
it's an opportunity to wake up from being
lost and distracted. So taking the
opportunity to simply come back
to the breath, breathing in and feeling the breath moving in, noticing the
pause between the inhale and exhale, breathing out and
feeling the breath moving out, releasing
into space, being with the exhale for
as long as you can. Each in-breath is a
chance to begin again, and each out-breath
is a chance to let go. This thing where
your focus is now, and if it has wandered away from the breath, acknowledging what
has gotten your attention, and
gently and firmly bringing attention
back to the breath. That's it. That's
the practice. The breath to support you to be in the
present moment. An anchor that you
can always return to. Just knowing this breath, this essence
of being alive, feeling the sensation
of each breath as it moves in and
through the body being with your life one breath at a time the bell rings staying
present with the breath
until you can no longer hear the
sound of the bell noticing how you
feel in this moment with awareness
and intention transitioning into your next activity ready.